# Shopping-Mall-Paid-Camapaign

## Introduction
This is project is a Marketing Campaign dashboard that utilised a Shopping Mall Paid Campaign dataset sourced from Kaggle to provide insights into the performance of a 5month shopping mall paid search campaign. The dashboard was designed using the Tableau software which allowed us to track the top performing ad group in each month and the revenue generated within the specified period. The tableau visualization can be found here: (https://public.tableau.com/app/profile/zoe.philip.iyawa/viz/MarketingCampaignDashboard_17058807141690/Dashboard1)

## Dataset
The dataset is a real dataset contanining data of a 2021 5 months paid search campaign of a 'Us shopping mall' (for privacy reasons for this project the name has been anonymized) promoting through paid search coupons and promo codes. The dataset contains information about the ad group advertising, clicks, conversions, impressions, revenues and costs.

The dataset for this dashboard contains the following attributes
- Ad Group: category of the advert (coupon/promo code, desktop ad/mobile ad etc…)
- Month: month of the campaign. The campaign started in July 2021 and ended in November 2021.
- Impressions: metric used in digital marketing to quantify the number of digital views or engagements of an advertisement. Impressions are also referred to as an "ad view.
- Clicks: how many clicks the ad received
- CTR: Click Through Rate, the number of clicks that your ad receives divided by the number of times your ad is shown: clicks ÷ impressions = CTR.
- Conversions: Conversions are those valuable actions that users take on your site like buying something or filling in a form. The success can be measured in the number of conversions generated at a particular cost.
- Conv Rate: Conversion Rate. It is the percentage of people who convert after clicking on your ads. Depending on your goals, a conversion may mean they make a purchase, complete a contact form, request a free trial, or take another desired action.
- Cost: Cost is the actual money spent by the advertiser (the "shop") for the related ad group.
- CPC: Cost Per Click, it is the cost of the specific ads divided by the click. It is one of the metrics used to evaluate the effectiveness of the campaign in terms of ROI (Return on Investment), therefore a low or decreasing CPC is better than a high or increasing CPC.
- Revenue: Revenue is the total amount of income generated by advertisment.
- Sale Amount: Sale Amount for this dataset means the quantity of sales derived by the single ad group.
- P&L: Profit and Loss, based on the formula Revenue - Cost. For this dataset mesaures the profit of the specific Ad Group.

## Dashboard Features

The Marketing Campaign dashboard provides the following key features:
- Total Conversion : A visual represenation of total coversion each month. This helps to identify which month had the highest amount of conversions. The data revealed that November had the highest volume of conversions.
- Top performing ads each month: Insights into the top performing ad each month. This helps you understand what ad group performed the best and potentially invest more funds in.
- Impression vs Clicks: This visual shows the rate of impressions against clicks. The visual revealed that the percentage of impressions surpassed the clicks. This means that there was high volume of views but the ads where not engaging enough.
- Revenue vs Cost: This visual shows the revenue made each month, as well as the cost incurred. The analysis revealed that the cost outpaced the generated revenue each month. However, in October Revenue exceeded cost by 1% increase, but the broader trend still suggest that the cost outweighs the revenue.


## Data Source

You can find the dataset used for this project here (https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/marceaxl82/shopping-mall-paid-search-campaign-dataset?rvi=1)
 
## Contributing

Contributions are welcome ! If you have any ideas, suggestions, improvements, please feel free to open an issues or submit a pull request.

## Acknowledgment

Specials thanks to Tableau and Kaggle for providing the resources and tools needed for this project.
